C++ for OpenCL 2021 (i.e OpenCL 3.0-compatible) (#616)
KhronosGroup/OpenCL-Docs: cxx4opencl/intro.txt

// Copyright 2019-2021 The Khronos Group. This work is licensed under a
// Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License; see
// http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

[[intro]]
== Introduction

> This language is built on top of OpenCL C 3.0 unified and {cpp}17 enabling

Author: Well currently C++ for OpenCL 1.0 is built on top of OpenCL 2.0 which is backward compatible with OpenCL 1.X and C++ for OpenCL 2021 is compatible with OpenCL 3. So we do cover all OpenCL C dialects now.

However, at the end of this section, we have a clarification of version compatibility so I don't see a need to have it here especially since it can't be explained properly at this point so it looks a bit confusing in my view.

> This language is built on top of OpenCL C 3.0 unified and {cpp}17 enabling

Reviewer: I see the reasoning now. Somehow I confused myself between the concepts of backward and forward compatibility. I agree that current description is good as is.

most of regular {cpp} features in OpenCL kernel code. Most functionality
from {cpp} and OpenCL C is inherited. Since both OpenCL C and {cpp} are
derived from C and moreover {cpp} is almost fully backward compatible with C,
the main design principle of {cpp} for OpenCL is to reapply existing OpenCL
concepts to {cpp}. Therefore, it is important to refer to
<<opencl-spec, The OpenCL Specification, Version 3.0>> `section
3.2` and `section 3.3` detailing fundamental differences of OpenCL execution
and memory models from the conventional C and {cpp} view.

> This document describes the programming language in details. It is not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes the programming language in detail. It is not
```

structured as a standalone document, but rather as an addition to OpenCL C
3.0 unified specification defined in <<openclc-spec, The OpenCL C Specification,
Version 3.0>> and {cpp}17 defined in <<cpp17-spec, The C++17 Specification>>.
Where necessary this document refers to the specifications of those languages
accordingly. A full understanding of {cpp} for OpenCL requires familiarity with
the specifications or other documentation of both languages that {cpp} for OpenCL
is built upon.

The description of {cpp} for OpenCL starts from highlighting <<diff2openclc,
_the differences to OpenCL C_>> and <<diff2cxx, _the differences to {cpp}_>>.

The majority of content covers the behavior that is not documented in

> the OpenCL C 3.0 `section 6` and {cpp}17 specifications. This is mainly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `OpenCL C 3.0 s6` and {cpp}17 specifications. This is mainly
```

related to interactions between OpenCL and {cpp} language features.

> This document describes C++ for OpenCL language:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document describes the C++ for OpenCL language:
```

>  * version 1.0 that is backward compatible with OpenCL 2.0;
>  * version 2021 that is backward compatible with OpenCL 3.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 * version 1.0 is backward compatible with OpenCL 2.0;
 * version 2021 is backward compatible with OpenCL 3.0.
```

Author: Here I mean:
> This document describes the C++ for OpenCL language version 1.0 that is backward compatible with OpenCL 2.0.

this is why I think `that` is needed or we can change to something like
* version 1.0 (backward compatible with OpenCL 2.0);
But `(...)` feels like something less important... although I think this information is quite important...

Reviewer 2: Ah, I misunderstood that you intended the list to be part of one sentence.  Then I would suggest

```suggestion
This document describes C++ for OpenCL language

 * version 1.0 that is backward compatible with OpenCL 2.0; and
 * version 2021 that is backward compatible with OpenCL 3.0.
```

== Version differences 

> The main difference  between {cpp} for OpenCL version 1.0 and version 2021

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The main difference between {cpp} for OpenCL version 1.0 and version 2021
```

comes from the difference between OpenCL 2.0 and OpenCL 3.0 with which they
are respectively compatible. Support for some features of {cpp} for OpenCL 1.0
has become optional as described in `OpenCL 3.0 s6.2.1`. Predefined feature

> macros can be used to detect if optional feature is present. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
macros can be used to detect which optional features are present. 
```

> macros can be used to detect which optional features are present. 

Reviewer 2: Maybe add:

```suggestion
macros from the OpenCL 3.0 specification can be used to detect which optional features are present. 
```

Author: How about slightly different wording since macros are part of the language and not only a document describing it? 
```suggestion
macros from OpenCL C 3.0 can be used to detect which optional features are present.
```

Reviewer 2: Sounds good to me.

> This impacts some C++ specific sematics mainly due to optionality of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This impacts some C++ specific sematics mainly due to optionality of the
```

generic address space (i.e. `+__opencl_c_generic_address_space+` feature) or

> program scope variables (i.e. `__opencl_c_program_scope_global_variables`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
program scope variables (i.e. `+__opencl_c_program_scope_global_variables+`
```

feature).

== The {cpp} for OpenCL Programming Language 

> This programming language inherits features from `OpenCL C 3.0, s6` as well

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This programming language inherits features from `OpenCL C 3.0 s6` as well
```

as {cpp}17. Detailed aspects of OpenCL and {cpp} are not described in this
document as they can be found in their official specifications.
 
This section documents various language features of {cpp} for OpenCL that are

> not covered in either OpenCL or {cpp} specifications, in particular:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not covered in neither of OpenCL C or {cpp} specifications, in particular:
```

Author: Agree, I think "the most correct" would be
```suggestion
not covered in neither OpenCL nor {cpp} specifications, in particular:
```

 * any behavior that deviates from {cpp}17;

>  * any behavior that deviates from OpenCL C 3.0;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * any behavior that deviates from OpenCL C 2.0 or 3.0;
```
